You might be in France already. No, I'm going to France on Monday. Oh, next
week? Yeah. Okay, listen, I didn't hear what you told David. Did you have a few
minutes now, or should we... Yeah, I guess we might as well do it now. I mean,
I'm going to have a million things to do anyway, and God knows when you get me.
It's just going to be about 10 minutes is all we need. Okay, is the tape
running, David? Yeah, we're okay. Okay, we got the tape rolling. This is just
really to add to what we found out from you before about the book, you know, The
Iron Dream. Right. I have a release here from Timescape, which is what I'm going
on. Okay, from what I understand, the ban in Germany came in late 1981. Or 1981,
rather. No, no.
Well, is that what it says there? Now I'm not sure. The book was published in...
Yeah, I guess it would be later. The book was published in Germany in about
February or so in 1981. It was banned... And the initial case was instituted
that summer, I believe, and then there were ministerial proceedings that went on
until about February 82, at which point the book lost the second ministerial
proceedings and was totally banned. So that's the time frame. Okay, could you
explain just briefly what the term ban means? Well, the term ban means you can't
buy it and you can't sell it. Succinctly. There are two kinds of bans. First of
all, I believe it's in there. But basically, the law states that anyone can
complain to anyone, can complain to a police station, that a book or another
work of art, for that matter, is unfit to the eyes of children, at which point a
ministerial executive proceeding is started, during that proceedings, before
anything is even decided, the book can still be sold, but it can't be displayed
or advertised. In other words, you can buy it under the counter as if it were
condoms in the 1950s or something. Then a panel is selected of notable citizens
or whatever, church leaders, youth group leaders, things like that, and they
form a kind of executive jury to rule on this. Now, what happened with the Iron
Dream is that the first time they did this it was a tie and they couldn't come
to a decision. So they went back and did this procedure again and that
commission banned the book, which means it's banned. You can't buy it. It is now
being appealed to the courts. Okay, so as far as you know, it's impossible to
get a copy of it in Germany. Well, it's not quite impossible to get a copy of it
because it was sold several months before this happened. So there were a few
copies you know I don't know how many probably several tens of thousands of
copies drifting around that people have already bought but you cannot buy it in
Germany at this point in a bookstore or any place like that Okay I'm pretty sure
I know your answer to this but I'd like you to state it anyhow what's your
reaction to it the ban What's my reaction to the ban My reaction to the ban is
very complicated First of all it took 10 years to get this book published in
Germany All my French friends said it would never be published in Germany. So
when Heinrich Verlag, you know, summed up the courage to publish it, I was very
pleased, and I thought that this was going to, you know, that this represented a
kind of maturity on the part of Germany. They were willing to look at this
stuff. And I felt very good about it being published there, and I was a bit
surprised. Now that it's banned, obviously I feel that, well, the book says it
all. The book itself, in a way, is about why it was banned. Because it's the
same sort of mentality that goes around banning books that resulted in a
different kind of way in the Third Reich. That's not to say that all Germans are
like this, because the publisher has fought this all the way and is continuing
to find it. Most of the German newspapers, there's been a lot of coverage, has
supported the book against the ban. The German chapter of World SF had a vote
and issued a public statement against the ban and supporting the book So I think
it's a very retrogressive thing and it says something about I suppose the German
political and social system is that they do not understand the concept that is
embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and
it's a particularly pernicious law because anything can be banned under this law
under the grounds that it's not fit for children, even if it's not intended for
children. Which is exactly the kind of thing that the moral majority is trying
to do here. Which tells you what kind of people they are, too.
I don't see how it's possible to misunderstand your intention in the book, and
for anybody who could possibly admire Ferrick Jagger, do you think that any
readers in Germany, young readers, would be in danger from reading it? Well,
any. I mean, you know,
Hinckley certainly misunderstood Sant' Taxi Driver, so there's always
schizophrenics and maniacs around who can misunderstand anything. I mean, David
Harwood's heard demons in his head. I mean, there are always completely crazy
people who can read things out of something that were never in there. There
might be one or two people around, you know, psychotics, who could get anything
out of any book. See, the book is written on two levels. The sophisticated
readers, they understand what it is to begin with. The other level is that the
kind of people who are into things like Terry Rodan and that kind of proto
-fascist science fantasy will start off reading the book, maybe identifying with
Ferrick Jagger, you know, a third of the way into it or something, and suddenly
realizing what it is they're identifying with. And so it becomes a kind of
deprogramming experience for the kind of people that they claim would be harmed.
I think it would be a very strongly anti-Nazi book precisely for those kinds of
young people who might have leanings in that direction because they would then
be confronted with what it is that they're really identifying with. So no, I
think it would be a more positive anti-Nazi program experience for the sort of
naive reader who grew up on Terry Rodan and that kind of crap rather than tend
to make them identify. I don't think anybody can read the whole book and get
through it and still identify with Ferric Jagger. Okay, just one more. I guess
the reaction to the Iron Dream and other European countries, I think, for
instance, in France, you won the pre-Apollo for it. It must have gone over
pretty well in the rest of Europe, right? This book has been published now in
the United States, Britain, France, Japan, Spain, Portugal, Argentina, Italy,
forget where else, about eight different countries. It's been published in the
other two, axis powers, published in Argentina, and it's been extensively
reviewed in about eight different countries. I have no instance where the book
was misunderstood and was taken as anything but an anti-Nazi and anti-fascist
novel
throughout the world. It's the only instance of it. And in fact, in Germany
itself, Stern Magazine, which is hardly a liberal publication over there, it's
like a Time Magazine of Germany or something like that, that I believe is owned
by Axel Springer for that matter, when they reviewed the book, they gave it a
very favorable review in Germany. And what they said, among other things in
their review, that it was something of a disgrace that it took 10 years for a
book like this to be published in Germany where it would be most useful to have
it published. They sort of tried it in Germany itself for taking 10 years to
publish the book. So even in Germany, the press did not take it in the wrong
way. Okay, before I let you go I was curious The movie rights to Bug Jack Baron
That you've sold Read the piece in Starlog about it How's that going? Does that
look like it's going to go through? Yeah, that looks like a very strong project
The movie rights The book has been brought out Harlan is about a third of the
way Through the script Costa Garveris As I understand it Is moving to California
To start pre-production because it's going to be made in America, not in France.
And I would expect that it will be made. They're talking about starting shooting
early next year, possibly this fall, but of course you never know what the
shooting schedule is going to be until they finalize the script. But the thing
is progressing, and I would expect it will be made. That's great. I was pleased
to read that. And also, one more thing, This Timescape release on the Iron Dream
said that your next book was The Void Captain's Tale. It's coming out in
January. I assume then since they're putting it out that is a science fiction
book. Yes, it's a science fiction book. It's a hardcover. Okay, maybe just one
or two sentences on what it concerns? Oh my God. Well, it's a very difficult
book to describe in one or two sentences. It takes place entirely on a... It's
one week on a spaceship. it's about it's about metaphysics sex and space travel
it's predicated upon a faster than light drive that is built around orgasm and
it's about a relationship between the captain of the ship and the pilot who is a
kind of organic module in the star drive who is kind of electronically pushed to
orgasm, which has to do with the mechanics of the Star Drive itself, and it's a
psychological story, but it's sort of a love story between these two people. It
is also written in, it takes place about 3,000, 4,000 years in the future, and
it is told by the captain of the spaceship in a sort of complicated diary, not
in a diary format, but it's told by the character of the spaceship in his own
language, which is an extrapolation of a situation in which human languages have
sort of coerced into one language, except everybody speaks a different dialect
of the same human lingo. And so it's written in a very experimental kind of
prose. It's full of foreign words and foreign expressions. I think it represents
something I haven't done since Bug Jack Barron and something that nobody's
really done since the 60s. It's written in a very... The prose itself is future
-oriented and made-up and is an integral part of the book. Okay, good. We'll
look forward to that. Okay, listen, we'll send you these tapes on. I think
probably we'll get two shows out of this, one on what you've given us earlier on
the book and then your reactions to that band. By the way, the same issue of
Starlog that had that little piece on Bug Jack Baron had a little article about
us, if you're interested. It was a page afterwards. Yes, I've read that. Okay,
and I think there are two stations in New York now that carry us, one in
Fredonia, one in Green Vale or Green something. I have no idea where either of
those places are. Yeah, so I don't think there's any in the metropolitan area
that you could pick up, but if there ever are, we'll go ahead and send you the
names of the stations. Do you have any idea when this is going to run? Let's
see. Okay, we're early June, probably July, mid-July, maybe the end of July. I
think your book comes out this month, Timescape, the paperback edition, so it
might give a little boost to that if enough people listen to it. Listen, we
appreciate your time again and hope you have a productive trip to France. Okay.
And thank you very much again, Mr. Simran. By the way, I have one more little
item. Good. Which would give me just relevance to you. Good. Is that my book,
The Mind Game, is being done as a full 90-minute radio play in France this
summer. A radio play? A radio drama radio play, yes. By French National Radio.
Apparently they do stuff like that over there, which is kind of interesting.
It's a good format for many things. They're doing a 90-minute radio play. That
will be in France, right? It will be in France. Yeah, okay. there'd be no use
for I guess it won't be a script or anything available in English well I guess
it might be a script that could be translated but the script will be in French
okay is there anything else I mean you might think of adding little items that
we could stick into the show I do have a book on writing coming out in the fall
called staying alive which is a collection of my locust columns with a lot of
additional material published by Donning and that will be out around September
October and also the Children of Hamelin will be done by a small press outfit
called Pequod Press this is a thing that was a novel that was never before been
published in book form it was serialized in the Los Angeles Free Press in about
1972 or so and was never published in book form anywhere this will be its first
book publication that will also be in the form yeah I think we got some
information from you on that one the last time we spoke with you. Oh, yeah,
that's right. Yeah. Okay, listen, we've taken enough of your time, I guess. We
better let you go, and again, we appreciate very much your time, and we'll be
sending the tapes on to you when the show is there. Okay, you're very welcome.
Thank you. Have a good trip. Bye-bye.